So here's a slightly better
example with props, so
we have this Vue.createApp,
we have our data, we say give me a taco.
If you look here, this is just
hard coded onto that component
every time you see a child component,
you have to give me a taco.
So I have this app-child I'm
passing in this text message and
remember that colon is short for V bind,
so I'm binding to whatever the message is,
so here the message was give me a taco.
In this component is kind of like this,
you can consider this prop
that I'm passing into the component
as like an empty shell.
I say props is text and
I'm passing that text into here,
but I can pass in whatever I want,
if I change this to give me burrito, which
I don't know why you'd ever do, because
really, you just want a bunch of tacos.
You can see, give me a burrito and
you can see that is all updating as well.
And you can also see that this
text was really the thing that
at allowed us to add the props, but
it doesn't need to be called text.
So if I wanted to call it like
robot in this to be called
robot and
then I go back in here and I say,
robot, that's also totally fine.
Like it can be named whatever
you want it to be named, so
it's not important that
this be called text.
It could also be called message even,
but for the distinction purposes here,
I'm making them have different names,
and I called this app child.
And you can see app child and
therefore I can pass a lot of different
things into this it's very flexible.
What's important here is that that div,
renders whatever I passed
into that component.
So that app child component, whenever I
pass something in, will have that div.
And likewise if I wanted to change
this to an h1, then everything updates
accordingly, i don't have to keep
updating all of these different units.
Because I wanted to change something
I can have it change in one place and
update for all of them.
So props come down from
the parent to the child, so
we're always passing data down
from the parent to child.
You can say you can remember
with props down events up,
we're always passing props down from
the date data from the parent to the child
because we want one source of truth.
We don't want this to be doing things and
then this to be doing things and
then it's like who owns the state who
owns the real truth of the thing.
Really that parent component is gonna own
the state the real truth of the thing and
the child is just receiving it,
it's just getting it with props.
So if we pass props text like you saw
before, these props are intended for
one way communication and you can think
of it like the component holds a little
variable that's waiting to be filled
out by whatever the parent since it.
So if we have this collection that you saw
before for that call out component, and
we have this little space that's
waiting for us for a prop.
If I pass in num equals 1,
it will fill that space,
it will fill that kind of area with
whatever I'm binding to that number.
We met somebody asked about validation
before we do prop validation,
you saw that it just was we're able to
pass in a prop just by putting it inside
of an array and it doesn't need to be
in an array even if it's one element.
But the better way of doing it is to say
props and then say some information about
that props like those props instead of
passing text in a string, an array, we're
gonna give some information we're gonna
say the type is string required is true.
The default is Hello Mr. Magoo, or
whatever you want that string to be.
And then here is the template where
I'm passing that information in and
what will happen if you don't
If you do something like let's
say I passed in a Boolean,
it's just gonna yell at you in dev mode.
Like it's not gonna completely
block your ability to do that, but
there will be some warnings
when you're in development, so
that you can see like that
wasn't what it was expecting.
And just a small note,
objects in arrays need their defaults
to be returned from a function.
So rather than saying a default of,
here, if we go back to the string, we
just said default and we pass that string
right in numbers you can do the same.
But if the default is an object or
an array,
we need to pass a function into
that default and return it.
So I would either do this or
if I wanted to do an arrow function I can
make it a little bit cleaner and
return alpa store and carnea SATA.
You don't necessarily need to pass the
data into props to the child either using
that parent component, in other words, it
does not necessarily need to be dynamic.
So you have the option of you
using that view instance data, or
using a static data as you see fit and
I'll show you what I mean by that.
Here we're gonna adjust the data or
adjusting up and we're adjusting down, and
you notice that this is staying 3,
and this is staying 2.
I'm gonna open up this code pen so
it's a little bit more clear,
so if you have this count of 0,
We have two app child's one here and
one here and one of them has
doesn't have a V bind on it.
And the other one does,
remember this colon is that V bind.
So what it's saying here is
maker relationship in that count
to this count, but here it's not bound.
This is just going to be interpreted
as whatever that string is, so I'm,
passing in three here, I'm just passing
it in, and it's just going straight.
So if I wanted to change this to 5,
I could change it to 5,
and that would update to 5, but
it stays consistent, right,
it's not dynamically bound
to this counter here.
This is dynamically bound to this counter,
so we're able to increment and decrement.